Heartfault


**Introduction to the problem:**

Our project is tasked to tackle the problem of the high number of deaths due to heart attacks. In fact, according to the American Heart Association, it is estimated that every 40 seconds an American will have a heart attack. There are approximately 720,000 new attacks and 335,000 recurrent attacks in the United States every year. Around 14 percent of people who have a heart attack will die from it. That is a lot of people! In Singapore, while the situation may not be so bad due to the lower population and good healthcare facilities, there should still be something done about these heart attacks which still lead to numerous deaths. There are many people who may be at a higher risk of these diseases, such as those with pre existing heart conditions or who have high cholesterol. It may be difficult for them to be constantly monitored for signs of heart disease, due to them living alone or other factors. 

**Introduction to the project:**
Our proposed project is a electronic wearable that can track and monitor the heart rate of the wearer. This wearable detects the electrocardiogram (ECG) signals from the wearer. Then, the wearable will compare the ECG signals received and the ECG signals from a normal heart. This will allow it to spot any differences and infer if these differences could amount to Atrial Fibrillation (AF), which is a sign of heart attack. In the event that there is AF, the device will vibrate and if the wearer is able to respond, he or she should press a button to stop the vibrating. Since AF may not necessarily mean that a heart attack has taken place, this is to avoid having too many false alarms. The wearer can then seek treatment for the AF at his or her own time as long as it is not an emergency. However, if the wearer does not press the button, attempts will be made to contact the wearer, though means such as calling. If after a certain period of time, the attempts have been unsuccessful, then the device will track the user’s location and notify the Community First Responders (CRFs) who are in the area or on duty to attend to the wearer as soon as possible as it is very likely that the wearer has had a heart attack. This will allow early intervention for people who experienced heart attacks, which would result in lesser lives being lost from heart attacks through mobilization of CFRs.


